
## Brief introduction of She Huo face painting on Ma Shao in Shaanxi province

She Huo, generally referring to the variety show and acrobatics which are performed by folk dance troupes during sacrifice ceremony in each traditional Chinese festival, is an ancient Chinese folk arts form. Its specific forms are varied greatly from region to region while for a common will that is scaring away evil spirits, showing people's happiness and expressing their good wishes for the coming year. In northwest China, such as Shaanxi province, She Huo is also known as She Hu.
In the whole She Huo performance process makeup is a holy and essential step, it contains costume and exaggerated painting on performer's face (facial designs or Lian Pu), in which facial design is the best method that presents the soul of She Huo as well as its content. In China She Huo has a long history and She Huo Lian Pu is regarded as the oldest Lian Pu. Shaanxi, as the birthplace of Zhou Dynasty, She Huo face painting in this region indicates the antiquity of the painting style and establishes its own system among all Chinese She Huo Lian Pu. 
Jiyou Li, the Chinese Arts and Crafts Master, managed to do She Huo face painting on farm implements such as: wooden hopper, wooden shuttle and Ma Shao (a big wooden scoop used to feed the horse and water the horse) when he was studying She Huo Lian Pu in Shaanxi province in 1984. Then he thinks up a totally new folk arts form - Ma Shao Lian Pu series. The overall formative style of this art form is strong, colorful and eye-catching, full of implications which is a good advertisement for typical Yellow River culture and pristine aesthetic standard of Chinese nation. The Ma Shao face painting is a collection of sharply contrasting colors to stand out different characters. It originated from San Qin folk daily life experience having rich connotations and adopted their personality to allow for symbolism. The appearance of Ma Shao Lian Pu transforms the face painting originally belonged to She Huo show into folk arts ornaments and tourist souvenirs which are beloved by Chinese and foreign people around the world.


